---
title: Sharing Secrets and Distributing Passwords -- Data Genetics Blog
slug: sharing-secrets-and-distributing-passwords-data-genetics-blog
aliases:
- /blog/post/sharing-secrets-and-distributing-passwords-data-genetics-blog
date: '2012-11-07T09:07:11'
---

The DataGenetics Blog has posted [*Sharing Secrets and Distributing Passwords*](http://datagenetics.com/blog/november22012/index.html), an excellent break down of [Shamir's Algorithm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamir's_Secret_Sharing), an algorithm implementing several ideal properties for distributing a *secret* as a number of parts:

> * Knowledge of any non-complete combination of sub-passwords gives an attacker no additional information on how to solve the problem. Even if you have knowledge of `n-1` passwords, there are still an infinite number of curves that fit through these points, and thus an infinite number of possible intercepts.
> * As we can clearly see, it's very easy to generate new sub-passwords as needed. If we need to generate and distribute a new sub-password, we simply pull off another coordinate from the curve and give that out! None of the existing passwords need to change.
> * If some of the sub-passwords are compromised (and you know which ones) and you want to regenerate new ones, but keep the uncompromised ones the same, you can generate a new curve that passes through the points you wish to keep. [Edit - Only if the the number of uncompromised points is two (or more) less than the minimum number needed to reconstruct the secret. Thanks for the correction @N1DQ]
> * To weight passwords (such as giving The President a nuclear launch password with three times the power of a regular password), we simply give out multiple coordinates to that person. Thus, for the nuclear launch example requiring requiring five votes, we generate an order-4 polynomial, give The President three coordinates from the curve, The Secretary of Defence two coordinates off the curve, and the rest of the troops one coordinate each.

<!--more-->

